The Unchanging Vajra Melody
A Prayer for the Long Life of Ngawang Kunga Tekchen Palbar Trinlé Wangi Gyalpo, the Lord of
Refuge and Precious Holder of the Throne of the Drolma Palace at Glorious Sakya
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
tashi tsen zang pema karpo ni
As the white lotus of excellent auspicious signs
jampal shyönnü chak gi torwa lé
Is cast from the hand of the youthful Mañjuśrī,
tsen chok sumden palden sakyapé
May the teachings of the glorious Sakyapa, possessors of the three supreme names,1
tenpé dzamling yong la khyab gyur chik
Flourish and spread throughout the whole of Jambudvīpa.

ngak la wanggyur jampal mawé seng
Having merged inseparably with the three secrets2
sangwa sum dang yermé shyukpa lé
Of Mañjuśrī, Lion of Speech, who has the power of oratory,
künga nyingpo lar yang samshyin jön
Kunga Nyingpo has intentionally returned once more
tekchen chö kyi gyalpo shyabten sol
As this sovereign of Mahāyāna Dharma—may your life remain secure.

dampé tsul gü yönten pal du bar
Blazing with the glorious qualities of the nine ways of the noble,3
khorlo sum gyi trinlé chok chur khyab
You cause the three spheres of activity4 to pervade the ten directions,
nyikdü güpa tadak sel dzepé
And dispel all the decadence of this degenerate age—
sampel wang gi gyalpo shyabten sol
King of wish-fulfilling jewels, may your life remain secure.

detar solwa tab di lama dang
Through the power of the true blessings of the guru,
yidam daki sungmar chepa yi
Yidam deities, ḍākinīs, and guardians, may this prayer
denpé jin tü gekmé drubpa dang
Be fulfilled without obstacle, and may virtue, goodness
chok lé namgyal gelek tashi shok
And auspiciousness reign victorious over all!

This prayer for the long life of Kyabgön Daktri Rinpoche, combined with words of aspiration,
was offered in devotion from Dzongsar Tashi Lhatsé in Kham by Chökyi Lodrö, who holds the
name of Jamyang Khyentse’s incarnation, on the auspicious third day of the fifth month of
the Water Dragon year (1952).5 May the gurus, victorious ones and their heirs grant their
blessings so that it may be fulfilled just so. Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ bhavatu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "dpal sa skya sgrol ma pho brang gi 7skyabs mgon bdag
khri rin po che'i brtan bzhugs" in 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986. Vol. 3: 423–424

Version: 1.0-20220204
↑ mtshan mchog gsum ldan, referring to the fact that the Sakyapa combine celestial descent,
the Khön family lineage and the Sakya lineage.↑ This and the following verse incorporate the
syllables of Sakya Trichen’s name: Ngawang Kunga Tekchen Palbar Trinlé Wangi Gyalpo (ngag
dbang kun dga’ theg chen phrin las dbang gi rgyal po).↑ dam pa’i tshul dgu. Listening,
contemplation and meditation, which benefit oneself; exposition, debate and composition, which
benefit others; and learning, discipline and kind-heartedness, which benefit both oneself
and others.↑ The ‘learning’ sphere of study and reflection (klog pa thos bsam gyi 'khor
lo), the ‘renunciation’ sphere of meditation (spong ba bsam gtan gyi 'khor lo), and the
‘activity’ sphere of work (bya ba las kyi 'khor lo).↑ This was the year of Sakya Trichen’s
enthronement, at the age of seven.